So, colleagues, we considered
a very interesting point, which
concerned the methods of decision
making, paid attention,
especially tried to consider
the issues of collegial decision making.
Let us finish everything with it, as
with a very important moment, summarize
a little, and move to the light of
the saints of the management decision
on how to resourcefully provide
the decision, how to what to strive
for when making decisions, what
resource and so on.
Here, questions arise in terms of the
effectiveness of different ways of
making decisions.
Of course, it turns out that
the most effective function
is the way this business game.
You can object, I often have
to hear such objections that
these business games, they got tired
of them, we were rushed to these
business games, every week a
business game, there in such
a company was selling, every week
they were somewhere there
some games.
The question is, if it is the sales
department, they are oriented for
the development of new markets, softly
speaking, the development, the capture
of new markets.
How do they solve the task?
Meeting to last one-and-
a-half, two-three-four hours and
think how to do it?
In the form of a game, of course.
On the other hand, again, if someone was
tortured by games, business games, I have
a question, and not whether someone was
tortured by the meeting?
Usually, there is a difference,
of course, because in the game
you need to stress, you need
to think, do something, get
some result, gain knowledge,
generate some ideas, defend
your point of view.
At the meeting, activity can be simulated.
You can sit, listen, yes, I agree,
and that’s all.
Or I disagree, or do not justify anything.
But I feel that it is not so.
I intuitively feel that it is not so.
Without calculations, without everything, without justification.
There is difference.
And here it is clear that if the
company can conduct brain attack
itself, although you can invite
the organizers of brain attack,
it is not a matter of course, for
business games, before we master
them, you need to pick up such
a candidacy that will conduct
with the maximum efficient
use of time, so that in that unit
of time while a production
task, operational or strategic,
was solved, so that it was possible
at this time and maximize
the second layer, the game
layer, which teaches, combines
and so on, and customizes
the company.
The game layer that relates
to the training system.
Maybe there are moments.
Now another question about
the effectiveness of group adoption
when the American model came
to us, defeated us in Moscow,
the meetings themselves became
not very relevant.
And those training sessions that
are recommended somewhere,
are being developed
there, are being proposed, in principle,
they are already principally outdated,
just as outdated, say, steam
cars at their time.
The vessels can be used today.
Yes, you can not only go to museums,
not only ride the public on the rails at
the holidays in the park somewhere,
but nevertheless they are already energy
inefficient and sent to the museum
for spare routes.
The same can be said with the meeting,
yes, they can be used, yes,
in principle, sometimes they
are needed, sometimes they are even
useful, but as such, their
effectiveness, that is,
the feasibility of their use is
not so high.
If we compare the two decision-
making models we looked at on
the example, which looked at the American
model and the Eastern one, where
there was the Italian mafia and
our structure was Soviet.
If we compare the speed of implementation
decision making, of course,
the American way of making decisions
is winning.
On the other hand, if we compare the standard
of living of those Soviet officials
who made the decision, and the standard
of life of those bosses who
made the decision in that described
situation, it is clear which of
them lives better.
They will probably benefit from
a common model, including decision-making.
Although the question is controversial, yet
there is something to think about.
And it is interesting that when
everyone makes decisions in the measure
of their competence, in the measure
of their powers, in the same example
as the Italian mafia, the chief
boss of his organization may actually
be concerned about taking
only two decisions.
All other decisions are made by those
who are to take them – the middle
and lower levels of management.
He only makes two decisions – whether
to start a war with the Seventh
Clan or not, if any complicated
relationships, go for
negotiations and so on.
The second question is, when it comes
to the liquidation or neutralization,
to say gently, of the
law enforcement officer.
No one makes these decisions
except the chief.
The rest of the decisions, he does
not do them, they do those who are
responsible.
In principle, this is the principle of
delegation of powers, to which we try
to come, and sooner or later we
will come to know that everyone is
only engaged in their own decisions.
But the chief boss has time to
think about strategic issues.
How to develop the organization further?
In which direction to move?
Because current internal issues are
decided by those who are responsible.
He is more concerned with perspective,
strategy, and so on.
Now, my friends, let’s go
to the most interesting.
What do we do when making decisions?
Here in many organizations there
is the same error, unfortunately,
in our country, and not only
in ours.
We said that management decisions
can be divided into one system
of division, it is
periodic and not periodic.
There are periodic management
decisions that require periodic
management decisions that
arise for one simple reason.
When the assembled persons,
individual or collective
decision-makers, are engaged in
the elimination of some of the
consequences.
They fight with the consequences, not with
the cause.
They try to solve problems once and for all.
All boundaries, all busy with work,
everything they do, make decisions,
consult, make papers, calculate
something, but constantly eliminate
these are the consequences.
If we take an example from life,
yes, we take medicine, that is,
our doctors usually eliminate
the consequences of some disease.
There is something in a person with a stomach,
yes, they gave him pills, like there
gastritis passed, well.
But a person has kept a lifestyle,
he still drinks Coca-Cola,
Pepsi, uses alcoholic beverages,
so, spicy such food is used
by everything.
After a while, he returns
to the doctors with the same.
And again, they eliminate
the effects of exacerbation of
his gastritis, again leading
to fading, to cessation of attacks.
You need to remove the cause.
Looking back a little,
as in many organizations.
Suppose there are monthly at the
end of a quarter or at the end
of a month, especially in Soviet times,
were aurals.
Everyone was kicking, performing,
day and night knocking hammer, producing
foods to fulfill the plan.
Yes, it was done, but it was
a system error, a system problem
that could be solved systemically.
To make employees material dependence
on the rhythm of work, so that they
work at the same rhythm constantly.
That is, that there are plans
not just quarterly, but weekly,
that weekly plans are executed.
Then it is clear, in our country, well,
and in others, too, it is not excluded,
there would be small aurals at the end of the week.
There would be many, but they would be small.
Not as global as “we are presenting
the end of the quarter,” we need to
develop a plan, and here two
people fell ill from a brigade that
had only five people, two welders,
for example.
I need to cook something there.
This is a disaster for the company.
This is a whole brigade, that is,
the company will remain without a prize.
Where to find a way out?
Again, only in eliminating the
cause of these aurals.
And when making decisions, first of
all, I am often asked, but there
is a need to make a decision, we
want to do it.
The question why we need to answer
ourselves for what and why we want
to do something because back to the first
minutes of our meeting when we
asked what is a management
decision it is first of all the
choice of a goal here this choice
of a goal allows us to avoid a lot
if the goal is chosen socially approved
by the whole team and broken
down into tasks under tasks then
it is easier to go to it then
remove intermediate some moments
that lead to disharmony and unnecessary
processes management decisions.
That is, again, to reduce the cost of
managerial work on decision-making,
you need to simply technologically
in the organization of the work cycle
of the organization itself to remove
those moments that lead to a
constant some annoying effect to
find their cause and to eliminate
once all yes this is what about the
causes and consequences that is to
say we find the cause we eliminate
it further work systematically until
this problem has arisen again
in this problem we look for the
reason why it arose increased
conflicts in the organization why
may these conflicts will be possible
without end to train on non-conflictology
and train employees to work
in the conditions of conflict,
you can without end.
On the other hand, you can find out
if this is caused by the fact that some
new cadres were adopted, initiating
conflicts, right?
And something to do with them, talk to them,
take them out of the state, and so on,
some measures to take once, right?
On the other hand, these conflicts
may be caused by a change in leadership style.
Maybe they are caused by the fact
that the information is spread somehow
not rhythmically, not exactly,
that official information is
not enough and people are nervous,
or maybe it is the reason for the
rapid growth of the organization,
and you just need to adjust the
staff policy, restructure and
accordingly change the organizational
culture, corporate culture,
instead of ordering endless
training on conflict
elimination.
After all, you can eliminate conflicts
through training, maybe quite easy
and simple, but expensive.
And this does not affect, they are less, it
does not become, although they are conducted
in this way.
Now on to.
Even more interesting is the moment.
When making decisions, we usually
said that there is, say, a third group
in the brain attack, and in general,
in the scheme itself there is
a stage when a solution is chosen,
the resource supply of each possible
option is justified, and something
of them is chosen
and implemented.
As a rule, any organization,
if we talk about the optimal
solution, tries to the desired
result by minimizing the
use of available resources.
What resources?
Financial,
material and technical resources,
energy resources, administrative
resources, human
resources.
Furthermore, as a resource, you
can connect, education, creative
abilities, desires.
The desire of the team members, the
desire of the employees to a goal.
That is resources.
Resources are usually lacking.
First of all, we also have to listen
now, but we don’t have money, we have
money, if we had money, we would have
all the issues solved.
In fact, since the Soviet Union
moved on to the path of restructuring,
acceleration and market economy,
we have fallen into a system where
the most important deficit is
the deficit of money.
This is not new in the world
is not enough money this is the
number one resource for which actually
speaking and is created enterprise
to earn money to get profit income and
here, of course, when making
management decisions you need to
develop such schemes so that without
spending, that is, by investing
resources at a minimum we get the
maximum return if We return to the
formula of Karl Max, to the formula
of capitalist production, that
money is turned into commodity,
and it is turned into
money-shredder, where as money-
shredder - it is the original
money plus delta-money.
We need to strive for the
delta money to be as much as
possible, and the initial money invested
as little as possible, so that for
each ruble invested they receive
a return of 10 100 thousand rubles
a million and then from this
for every million that we received
we invested 10 rubles 1 ruble
1 tenth ruble or 1 hundred rubles
here is already the highest decision
making pilot but this is not
yet the highest pilot the highest
pilot when we invest zero, and
we get millions when we don’
t invest anything.
Such management decisions are
probably already out of the
best, most desirable solutions.
When an organization does not
have any resources, not only money,
but material and technical
resources, cars, these are production
capacities, these are buildings,
these are computers, the same.
I forgot to say that information
resources are needed to introduce
information wars, to inform the
population about a potential
consumer, about something,
about the organization.
And if we translate it with
this formula of capitalist
production to all other
resources, it is desirable
to make such decisions, and
let us strive to the
maximum possible result
by investing zero resources.
This would be considered the top
pilot of management activity.
And if the management decision
is a product of management
activity, then this is the orientation
of how to act.
Let us look at the example.
Let us return to the one we have already
looked at.
The example is Thomas Sawyer.
Hero of America, without investing anything,
achieved the solution of the task
and received additional resources
in the form of toys, apples and so on.
On the one hand, this is an example
of how you can work in a lack
of resources.
Now let us further aggravate
this situation and try to
increase the professionalism
of the decision-maker even more.
That is, we’ve just talked about
that when we don’t have resources
and we get something, it’s the highest
pilot when we don’t
have resources.
Not even with zero
investment.
And now let’s consider the option
when we can get something, Not just by investing
nothing, but having a minus there
instead of zero, when we don’
t have resources, we lack
that resource.
That is, when we talked about that assessor,
he had a paint, had a brush, he could
paint the fence himself, but he did
it with other people's hands.
That is, he had a resource, a
minimum investment in paint, he himself
invested his intellectual resources
and got the result.
In principle, it could even be
said in a different way, to transfer
him to another class of even higher
pilot when making a management
decision, that he did not have
the desire to paint the fence,
there was no desire.
And this lack of desire prompted
him to the fact that this desire
appeared in those who painted
the fence and gave it their toys.
That is, the lack of a resource
has become a resource.
Now another example, more clear,
more rigid in this respect.
Once upon a time, again, in the
Soviet era, there was a system
called the SEF – Council of
economic mutual assistance.
And all the countries of the
CEF somehow gathered,
because we had electricity produced
mainly in the Soviet Union, the
countries in Eastern Europe
were less powered, and since
the Soviet Union was a big
country, and so we made
this decision together,
let us do so.
We sell electricity
to each other.
Let us sell.
That is, from east to west, to
push the energy west to east and
so on.
We will put the counts, we will...
Okay, that is to say, everyone does that.
They sell each other, put the
counters and calculate.
But here a clever decision was made.
Let’s put two-rate counters.
When the electricity...
We know that there are
power loads and peaks.
Somewhere from 6 to 8
am the peak of electricity consumption
hostess get up include plates
there heated light bulbs especially
in winter people are going to
be shaved there and so on all
going to work go in transportation
enabled electricity city
consumes a lot of energy that
is, peak electrons the same peak
in the evening and day and night
failures here let's have in
the night we will be cheap
electricity accident peak
expensive put two-rate meters
on the borders of the states
and the year worked in this
mode of electricity sold received
and so on someone needed
a year looked at the bills
asked analyzed told no
all so that they said
the Soviet Union was supposedly
left in their interests
so there is nothing but
so-so-so-so-so-so-
so-so-so-so-so-so-so-
so-so-so-
They during the year on
the counter that shows consumption
and sales, they bought more
than they sold.
They don’t have enough electricity,
they buy more.
It lacks its own.
They bought electricity.
And by the price counter, where
the money, they should have got money.
It is amazing.
The lack of electricity
allowed them to earn from selling
and buying electricity.
How did they do it?
They simply moved the start of
the working day on a state-
wide scale by 2 hours.
While they were sleeping, they were getting
up, going to work, driving.
And when everyone started to go
to work, they at this time already
had a drop in load.
In the morning the same evening here
is such a simple example now there
are examples of the relationship
between resources with each other, that
is, we approached the fact that
we need to work without resources, lack
of resources to turn into a resource,
well here is the example now then
we will understand it so that we
show it was and in Soviet times
remained and in Russian time We know
that every country is forced,
whether it wants it or not, every
time in this country to
produce iron.
It is sinked in the house ore, there
are still necessary components
in it, a high temperature
isined, the ore melts.
And from time to time, iron
is poured into the wagonette, it will
be rolled over, spilled on its necessary
devices, with which the preparations
are poured out for further
processing.
So here is what a difficulty, that as
soon as the extruded iron
is poured into the wagonette,
it begins to contact with oxygen.
The formula of this iron is iron, ferrum.
At a temperature of about
1500 degrees, iron is oxidized.
And while the liquid iron is in the
wagon, the top is covered with a
shell of oxide.
First, this crust must be eliminated
in some way when translating, Second,
it is marriage, iron oxide, that is,
the loss of metal in the process itself.
I thought about how to avoid it.
They thought, they thought, they thought.
Close the cover, make a vacuum
over the car.
That is, it is troublesome, then expensive,
then difficult to organize, because the
wagons are moving, something had
to be done.
I thought we found a technical
solution.
It is poured into the iron and sleep
it from above.
When the iron is formed, the garbage does not float
from above into the house.
When the iron fuses, the garbage is thrown
somewhere too.
Previously, they were engaged in its recycling,
putting it into waste, recycling
some to eliminate.
Now decided not to process this
garbage, partly, at least, cover
it with a layer of liquid
iron from the top.
that is, once he this sludge he was
and in the dome he is here on
top he eliminates oxygen contact
and consequently loss escapes
losses of the supply and we
avoid getting the shell 2 that
is, iron normally spills the sludge
again float on top cleansing
smells there already by a technical
device it is much easier
and cheaper all that is we again
found the waste that became
useful to use, and not
just the waste that was a zero
resource, and those waste that
had to be recycled and on their
recycling and destruction to spend
resources, that is, here is the
technical solution that allows
the minus to turn into a plus,
now on, let's try, yes, this
technical solution has been
further turned into a management,
in an organizational decision,
that is, it was necessary
to pack this iron
in a vacuum each time,
here to store it
And here someone has thought of
such a solution that changes
technology, and let’s say, we will
put this garbage on the bottom
in empty wagons, it’s light.
The wagon enters, fills with iron,
the garbage rises up itself, so that
it does not fall asleep, and it is easier
to fill an empty wagon, all some
huge devices are put in, inside
it no longer appears.
He goes in, goes to sleep,
goes on, and all the same.
Here is an example of an organizational
solution that implements our
technical solution.
Further on resources.
Information resources play a
major role in the organization today.
Especially in an organization that works
in the market, with consumers, even private,
even corporate, it is
the presence of a website, the presence
of an email address for correspondence,
the presence of ACQ.
When Belarusians came to us last year,
they wanted to go to the Moscow
market, they asked to help,
we need to go out.
The Moscow City Council was addressed by a official.
The question is, how do I keep in touch with you?
They give a visit card, there
is no email address, nor internet.
How to connect with them?
No anyway.
We are sent by fax to all of the offers.
Who would fax today?
Then he passed, then he didn’t pass,
then it was expensive, it can be
long, uncomfortable when there
is an email.
They are not ready to
develop their information.
The decision to go to another market.
Yes, we have good quality,
high quality products.
We know that in Belarus is
traditionally high quality
of trimming, high quality
of light industry products,
high quality of food products.
You come and ask, do you
have ISO standards?
No is.
Why did you come to us?
You are another country.
We have a high quality, but high.
Now again, the information provision
of their decisions to enter our
market is not worked out.
That is to say, we should have information
that we have ISO standards.
We are here to compete, we want to compete.
I hear objections.
We don’t have the internet, we don’t have it.
Okay, well, there is no optical fiber.
You can not have this site constantly
maintain there are free sites
opened it there created and let
it hang but update it once
a month allow or once in
two where there are 34 pages
literally people can open to
ensure the activity
and company well there is not
something there we do not know
there but you do not need
once this neighbors open let
hanging email the same we have
no wires on and spent still
there is a phone Well we have
this phone node so station
old that they can not provide,
well well, take mail
in principle enough
twice a week.
You can arrange with the school
or even go with someone,
rent these for an hour or two
hours a week at a club,
internet club, internet cafe,
and send an employee to
take the email, you can.
That is, so much, and we in Russia have
a lot, in the province the habit
of thinking has already warmed
the habit of thinking, that
is, we approach the psychological foundations
of paralytic decisions.
So much of the habit of thinking
is standard, that is, routine.
Again, it’s not just my criticism
of someone.
This is a general system,
it is the qualification of our management
that we cannot, very hard to
go beyond the usual decisions.
If we have always done this,
let’s do it here.
It was not from the internet.
When it happens, we will start.
It is not necessarily possible to go
somewhere to get this resource, as
a resource to ensure the adoption and
implementation of some management decisions.
Now, if we go on, there is a very
interesting moment that I promised
to tell you from the beginning.
It is making the right decisions.
Speaking of resource support of
management solution, one point
must be noted, that is, we are
returning again to the optimal solution.
Sometimes it happens, even it happens
often, just we don’t know about
it, such situations when
the optimal solution we need,
the optimal result, we can’t.
Well, for some reason we can not,
or we can, but at a very high
cost of available resources.
This happens often.
There is a question, well we are used
to thinking so, here we need to, before
we have to do it, and we start doing.
We are spending some resources,
but we are achieving the task.
This was normal in those conditions
when we didn’t have resources, when
we were the richest country and,
actually, nobody was responsible
for anything.
In a situation where everyone makes a
decision, the American model, and
everyone is responsible for their decision,
it makes sense to consider
other options to the set goal.
That is, we were given the task
of reaching some resource, reaching
some goal.
We calculate the resource
provision, look, ah, we can’
t get in.
Let’s look at other options,
or maybe we’re not getting
to the goal.
We can’t get to, let’s say, and
we didn’t get to the goal of
5%, right?
But 20% of the available resources
were saved, that is, they achieved that
95% target for 80% of resources.
Beneficial and profitable.
Why not change the original goal and
not make it different that prevents if
it is profitable does not interfere
with anything or vice versa you can
try to step a little further
than this goal, let us get 101
percent of the result, so it is achieved
we will spend 95 percent of the
resource but to 100 percent
of the result we will
spend 100 percent of the resource.
There are such extreme points, we
know it, right?
There are extremes.
That is, discussing some solution
and, looking at, choosing from
options, you need to consider those
solutions that lie next to.
Those moments that lie near the
point where we should be.
A little closer, a little further away.
well well.
Now about the right and wrong decisions.
As I said, only the
right decisions are made.
Since when?
Once I read the book of Vladimir Tarasov,
director of the Tallinn School
of Managers, “Personal Technology”.
There he had a number of tasks that
I use with references to the developer.
And including was an interesting
thought he had, I do not
shy away to repeat, that all the
decisions that the LPR or
manager makes are correct.
My rhetorical question of whether the
president made the right decision,
having recently resigned the
government, is the answer to
such a “right decision.”
We are just used to our mentality,
again, in our management qualifications,
not to question managers,
to assess decisions correct
and wrong.
Let us agree once a hour
that all the decisions we have
made are right.
And now we will evaluate not
the decision itself,
but its consequences.
And if the decision we have made to
ensure the achievement of the goal
with the minimum use of resources,
it does not mean that this decision
is beneficial to us as a whole.
Every decision taken in
its implementation has
consequences.
These consequences are
both positive and negative.
They are close and distant.
That is, if we draw it in the form of
a matrix, we will see that the consequences
of decisions lie on the matrix.
On the one hand, these are close
positive consequences and
distant positive consequences.
The immediate negative consequences
of our decision and the distant
negative consequences of our decision.
When we fill out the
implications of the quadricism
on this matrix, we can
then analyze them.
What more, what less?
Whether this solution is beneficial
to us in the future, or it is
only beneficial today in terms
of the cost of resources, it
is in any case correct and when
we choose the most low-cost solution
today, which requires a minimum
investment in resources, and
even better when it is not necessary
to invest resources, and even
better when the resource
is the lack of resources and
when the planned result will
have more positive
decisions, both close and
remote.
And these positive consequences
will considerably outweigh the
negative consequences.
Then we can talk about
choosing one option.
A simple example.
A person makes a career, has completed
an MBA course, he is invited by two
organizations, in one he already works.
He has to decide to stay
or move.
All these decisions are correct, leaving
one organization is correct, staying
in the organization is
correct, leaving the next organization
is also correct.
For each decision, a matrix of the
consequences is made of those that
were depicted on the slide, where that
Person writes the consequences
of those decisions.
First of all, we will agree that neither
of these solutions needs to provide
resources, somewhat significant,
that is, and there, and there,
in three points he can
get without using any resources.
That is, there, everywhere he is
invited, he has not communicated
with anyone, well, the normal situation.
And here, after filling out these three
matrix, the person planning his career
begins to evaluate their
positive and negative consequences.
I think all decisions are correct.
We are also taught when building
a career to judge decisions,
right or wrong, about moving
somewhere.
That is, large lists are made, proximity
to the workplace, flexible schedule,
the possibility of travel,
the possibility of improving qualifications
and so on.
Many parameters, they are evaluated
on a 5- or 10-point scale are calculated,
yes, this is, in fact, inconsequence,
these are the pros of momentary
solutions, that is, today, that
is, this is the point
that you can choose.
Here, having compiled three tables
on resources for these three
options, how much to get before
work, what long leave, what
salary, and so on, having evaluated
all in a single scale, Man
chooses the most acceptable
solution for himself,
which is the desired point
X.
And here it is from it that we
must start considering this most
beneficial option today – the consequences.
After all, in the other option, the
seven-minute benefits may be less,
but the positive effects are generally
greater, both close and remote.
Of course yes?
Now,, we have learned to make positive
decisions, the right decisions
in our lives, in our activities,
and it is time for us to move
on to how people make decisions.
We considered decision-making, and
these heuristic creative methods
were considered more or less in detail.
Mathematical methods we decided not to
consider, they are given in textbooks,
many of them, these methods.
And now we approach the methods
that are most often used on the
ferrally line of control.
These are willful, intuitive,
intuitive-logical, as they are called,
and so on, in different ways.
That is, any manager starts his
career, usually from the first
line, from the lower management.
And success in his promotion depends
on how he can contact
those who are above him in his
position, organize the work
of his subordinates and contact
with the same festival managers
who are with him in the neighborhood,
with whom he coordinates
plans, develops projects, comes
together to a meeting,
planners to his mid-manager.
Therefore, a big role in his life
plays how a person makes decisions,
in what ways.
Knowing the ways of making decisions,
how a person takes them, here
you can plan the decision he should
take, bring him information
so that he has taken the decision
we need, it will still be correct
in any case, the decision we
need, if it is not very contrary
to the interests of the
organization.
And that it would be clear to the person
who agrees with us, and, in
fact, does not cause him any
insults.
Maybe he said something bad.
Let’s talk about these psychological
features of decision-
making.
In principle, they are important,
these features, and at the top level of
management, and on the middle.
They are important outside our
organization when we communicate with
our competitors, with our business
partners, even within the family.
When we communicate with our
wife, husband, children, parents,
knowing how a person makes
decisions will help us
much greater results in life.
So let’s start by considering.
First of all, how different types of
decisions are made according to
Jung's typology.
Here are four pairs of personal
preferences that define a person’
s life.
The first pair is extrovert and introvert.
It has no importance for decision
making.
Although extrovert, though introvert,
this function does not work on
decision making.
Some people prefer to talk,
especially at meetings,
while others prefer to be silent
at the same meetings.
The first are extroverts,
the second are introverts.
The second pair of preferences are
sensory and intuitive types.
To explain the purpose and task of our
colleague sensory we need to pay attention
to the details of the proposed
options, those that are momentary,
that is, the little things,
details, details.
When he knows them, it is
easier to make a decision than
if we were to tell him about
the prospects, about some
big big challenges that fit in.
For him, it is better to break down
a large task into small tasks,
on subtasks and work with small
subtasks that are extremely clear.
It is easy to make decisions in such
situations.
For a person with the predominance
of the intuitive type of thinking, it is
better to talk about prospects, about
the globality of projects, about opportunities.
He understands this, and it is easier
for him to make a decision.
It works easier with whole
images, with whole projects and programs.
Talk about strategies and
so on.
So what can we do of
this for the planet?
First, we know what to talk about
with different people, different types,
right?
On the other hand, when we
form a group to make a decision,
we know that both are needed.
That is, when forming a group
for a meeting, a seminar or a business
game, we need to consider that
we need both intuitive types who
see the whole information,
and sensors who can break it into
details, into sub-tasks,
specifically to deal with each
of them.
The next pair of personal preferences are logic
and ethics, according to Jung’s typology.
What is the logic, what is the logic?
Well, logic is guided
by the profitability
of any decisions, any
results, any projects.
If we talk to our colleague
of the logical type or to a competitor
or to a partner, we explain
to him that this is a project,
we start at that time, such
a time is required.
The profit of it is this:
we invest so much, we get so much.
We invest money like that, let’
s say, and we get money like that as
a result of the delta.
Our costs are like that.
So much work, so much
time is needed.
And he simply thinks that it is beneficial
or not beneficial, depending on
this he decides whether they need
it or not.
Will we do it or not?
Everything clear and understandable.
If we tell him something else, such
as ethics, say, how it will affect
the climate in the team, who will
approve of it and who will not approve,
it is not so important for
him.
Approves, does not approve, he
came to work, he gets a salary
for this, that is all logical.
For this salary, he needs results.
The greater the result, the more
actively he will support such
a project.
Ethical people are, of course, not
so focused on profit for the
company, they are more focused
on the climate, on the relationships
of people.
They think so, but how will it happen?
Do we make a decision, how will
others look at it?
Who will it affect?
Will this decision be better for everyone?
And how do these consequences affect
each participant?
Actually, this is an example
that can be brought here for alloyists,
ethics, we will try to solve
the problem a little later.
That is, an example of such a person,
someone somewhere decided to go
outside the city, a normal ordinary
person, not yet top position,
not even a middle manager, an
ordinary manager, who still
uses inter-city buses, took
a ticket for two weeks in advance,
goes somewhere to ski, sits
down to his third place
quietly to drive.
And here the situation comes in, to
the driver comes up once prepares
the son there or grandfather I need
to go there take there money gives
him well and honestly when passing
sit there and the way we three hours
how much grandmothers we or grandparents
we do not know and here we go grandmother
is around us what to do to
give up the place or not give
up of course give up and why we
took the ticket in two weeks
we thought, respectively
we were preparing to drive us
long we paid out for what is called
the advance payment of this
ticket, grandmother came here,
she realizes that she can not plan
her life, went to the grandchildren,
she did not see literally
since last September, very
cleaned.
It’s her problem that she didn’
t take another bus on the very
thing, and we, actually speaking,
will give her place for
some reason.
The train is standing and driving, once
it cannot think, can’t plan or does
not want to wait, the next bus
is going in two hours.
Logical and logical.
On the other hand, it is a pity
how you can take and just sit,
and next to it is an old woman.
Literally, maybe my mom and mom.
And I sit, young, healthy, skiing,
skiers there up there
in the trunk.
Well, you can get up, stand up, after
all, at work, in the office we
sit for eight hours.
It is even better to stand.
Well, I say, it is more useful to stand – it
is logic again.
If we talk about ethics, well, people
look around chicks, my grandmother.
There is a woman with a child,
there is another grandmother next to her.
Only I can give up my place.
The ethic will sit and feel uncomfortable
under the disapproving views of
others, and of course he will give
up his place and stand as long as
he has to be a grandmother to her.
And if she follows another grandmother,
she will still stand.
He will give up the place of another because
he is ethical, because he is uncomfortable
sitting when a man is older than him, a
woman standing.
But on the other hand, the logic
can be to give up.
only he has the way of reasoning another
and that I sit in the office at 8 a.
m. every day the cess will come there
again we will be in the restaurant
means to sit there to mark the arrival
of all dinner there and then only
tomorrow ski while then I stand someday
at 2 3 there look when grandmother
will go out may day there then I
sit normal legs to stand there
well what I will stand that is
they can come and the other and logic
to this same decision but the
way of making decisions will be
different If we know this way, knowing
the type of person, we can bring
him to the right choice we want.
Do you understand why we need to choose?
We will not talk about it now.
And the advantage of choosing or
something else will simply be that we
can influence the way.
And again, when we assemble
a group to make a creative and heuristic
decision in a collegial
way, in a collegial
way, again, we need to choose to
be people of both logical and
ethical type, so that we consider
all the features, the
whole way of making that
decision.
Okay, I understand.
We went further.
There is another fourth pair of personal
preferences, which are called decisive
and perceiving by the jungle.
How is the decision being made here?
Let’s start with the simplest, the most sensitive.
What are the features if
we include them in the decision-
making group?
The characteristic of those who perceive
is that they do not make decisions.
In principle, never ever.
at all.
They just accumulate information
that they can share, discuss,
but never make decisions.
No, they can accept it, say
“yes, this is what we are
doing,” and in two minutes say
“no, we will not do it.”
Therefore, if we negotiate,
some decision is made with competitors,
partners, and in front
of us is a face of the
perceptive type.
Once he has agreed to the decision,
you need to give him a paper
to sign so that he immediately signs.
Otherwise, he may change his decision later.
Then there will be new information, and
he will have another solution.
It was little that he agreed.
Two days later, he said, new
information came to him, and we
changed circumstances.
Sorry, it is not beneficial for us now.
Of course, he can then say that it
is not profitable for us when the
contract is signed, he may have
changed his mind, but in general,
the working company, if the contracts
are profitable in general,
will still not work.
As for the person of the decisive type,
they are just making the decision.
Only they decide and decide.
They take the decision seriously and for a long time.
If a person of the decisive type has made
a decision, it is very difficult for Somebody
to change it.
Including him himself.
If we have achieved some
results in negotiations with a
partner, a competitor, someone
else, and worse still,
we have not achieved results,
and he said, “No, we are
not happy,” then it is better
to stop negotiations right
now and not put any pressure,
not try, not waste time,
not waste any resources.
He says, “All is well, thank you
for giving us time, let us break
up for a while, think, look
together, maybe something will
change in the situation and
meet again, and get him to just
agree that he will decide
to meet again, so that he is
in principle beneficial
to meet again.
Once he makes this decision,
you can break up, because
he will still sooner or
later agree to meet us.
And by this point we will need to prepare
a solution for him, prepare a
draft solution for him, choose to prepare,
taking into account its parameters
such as logic, ethics, sensory and intuitive.
If we lead the solution to the solution
we need in the right way, that decision
will be approved on that side
sooner or later.
If he accepts it, then he will in principle
stand on that decision.
No need to rush, immediately
sign all the papers on the
table.
On the other hand, decisions
on cooperation between two
different organizations,
i.e. management decisions that
some individuals make, they can
only be made if this cooperation
is beneficial to both
organizations.
Another thing is that the
decision-makers depend on the pace
of convergence of positions, the pace
with which they meet each other,
conclude contracts and begin
an exchange of resources,
say, goods, services, money resources,
information, and so on.
If it is not beneficial for companies,
in principle, we can bring
down a decisive or perceptive
decision, conclude a contract,
in principle, break some
kind of cush.
But later, as in the joke about
silver spoon, he will have
a sediment that the contract
was wrong.
And yet, we will have to wait for
conditions where cooperation will
be mutually beneficial.
We talked about this, we considered
how people make decisions
according to logic.
It is, of course, all good that
this type of guy makes a decision
in such a way that to get some
solution from him we need,
we must provide him with information
in such a way.
It is all good and great.
The question is another.
How do I know what type is this?
How do we gather the group
and so on the types we need?
First of all, when it comes to
the employees of your organization,
your colleagues, then nothing is easier.
There are many different
variants of psychosocial type
tests and it is possible that
the HR service can test all
the employees of the organization,
at least those who lead
and make decisions.
That is, we already know the type of
person, form groups of these people,
we know people, approach them with
a solution to the question, and it
is clear that he, knowing our
type, in some situation will
respond to us with mutuality or not,
depending on his interests, and so on.
Again, let us note that
organizations usually
lack resources, especially
money.
And it is clear that because of them there
are constant contradictions, including
those contradictions that give impetus
to the development of the organization.
Now, how do we identify a
psychotype of a person we do not know?
First of all, of the remaining three pairs,
preferences, with the exception
of the extrovert and the introvert,
the most important pair are the
decisive and the perceiving.
That is, a person makes decisions in principle
or he does not take them in principle,
if he accepts, he immediately
changes.
This is the main couple.
Here you can find out, let’s say, not in
the form of the person himself.
Let us imagine the situation, let us consider.
Here is the sales department manager.
His partner comes to another company.
The same as the head of the department, well,
let’s say, the purchase.
They have discussed a matter
and demand that we go to his
boss, to his boss, whom we have
never seen in the eye.
We ask there in the conversation between the
affairs, it is clear that when people have
known for a long time or even recently,
there are tea, coffee and drink there
in the office.
And we ask, how you have the boss in
general, he is a man of words, there is no word.
And we ask two or three questions that
allow us to judge by the answers,
how much he relates to the decisive
type or to the perceiving,
how much he has been on the rise,
how quickly he makes decisions,
to give up his words or not,
yes, that is, we can find out.
It is further understood that we
cannot test our competitor
or partner by a paper test
or electronic test, especially a
high-ranking one, but we can try
to determine his type, yes, by his
behavior, let’s say, at some
parties in his form, yes, at general
industry holidays, which
are held, at some fairs, exhibitions,
seeing, listening to what he
says, how much he says, how
much he says, how much we
do, or, let’s say, we need to
think about this, we need
to think a little, we need
to consult how independent he is.
Because the person deciding,
will say, yes, I will do it, yes,
I will.
It will see, it will say, it will
think, it will see, there and so on.
So focus on that.
Then, if we have a list in the company,
that is, the characteristics
of each person, and we constantly
communicate with them, we get
used to the fact that a certain type
is behaved in a certain way.
We will not now talk about the fact
that, in principle, all these four
pairs of preferences give
16 psychosociotypes, each of
which and in the internal
content corresponds with the appearance.
And, in principle,
people of the same type are similar to
each other in basic features.
Of course, one can say that type is a
non-permanent system of Jung, it is a
system of personal preferences.
Indeed, people are not always the same.
It changes depending on the
situation, the mood, the
time of year, how he woke up.
It is clear that a person who
leaves his boss after a break
will make a different
decision than when he leaves the
boss when he was praised
and promised to give a premium
at the end of the quarter.
Obviously different.
But nevertheless, just as everyone has
a right hand and a left hand, and
the right hand prefers to do everything
with the right hand, to write, yes,
and the left hand with the left hand,
so the person, having each
pair of preferences, prefers
to use in most cases one preference
from the pair.
Therefore, by communicating with
your colleagues, knowing their
type, we will learn to determine
how other people behave, and approximately
imagine that he is of himself...
how he will behave.
Now, it’s no secret,
of course, as a rule, about
70% of women are ethical.
And, accordingly, 70% of men to the logical.
That is, if we go to the office to the
boss, we know that he is a man, we
don’t have time for his express
diagnosis, which we haven’t learned
to learn, and we are already on training,
we assume that in 70 cases out
of 100 he is a logic.
And, accordingly, we are already building
a conversation based on logical qualities.
On the other hand, we don’t know who he is,
but we were wrong, he wasn’t logical,
as it turned out.
So, you need to prepare the options of the
conversation in advance and on the second line,
on the line of ethics, to lead to the decision
on the line of ethics.
Or the sensor is intuitive, meaning
we need to know the prospects of
some project, and the details, if we
are professionals, we know them,
of course.
And here we enter the man, we
talk to him, he begins to ask us questions
about the little things.
So this how?
If you get to wrap up here, you’re going to wrap
up here, right?
How does it work?
How much guarantee do you have?
We make the preliminary conclusion that
we are dealing with the sensory
type now, and accordingly
we respond to it in its language,
in its sensory language.
If he begins to ask, but how this project
will come out in the future, and how
we will participate in such a
thing, that is, these are questions
of a forward-looking plan.
Accordingly, we can make the preliminary
conclusion that the person is currently
able, prefers to communicate
in the language of the intuitive
type, and we support this
conversation.
Of course, we remain our own
type, we need to know our type.
We must control ourselves because it
is easier for us to speak in our own language,
and try to transition to the language
of our interlocutor so that
the decision made by him meets our
expectations to lead him to such
a decision.
So the first.
In your company, you can
centrally test all the necessary
management employees and know
their types both for gathering
groups and for working with
each individual, knowing their
strengths and weaknesses.
Second, to train those employees
who are involved in negotiations outside
the company, copper express
diagnostics, definition of type
of manager.
In fact, on the one hand,
it is difficult to do.
I only had one case when I hit
100%, immediately determined
the type of person.
But, nevertheless, in the process
of conversation this can be done,
and in fact somewhere within a
minute you can determine what is
decisive or perceptive, extrovert
or not, sensory or intuitive
and logical or ethical.
We do not need more.
If a person speaks a lot, let him talk,
let him talk, it will be easier for
us to determine if he is extroverted,
it will be easier to determine
what type he is.
With an introvert it is a little more difficult,
they have to ask questions, and they don’
t like it.
That is, you can, again, as
we try to ask his colleagues
what he is about, ask questions,
what he pays attention to
when discussing projects,
what he likes more, whether he
is late when he starts
a meeting, or starts their
minute by minute – these are
just the properties of sensory
and intuitive.
Sensory people always start everything
on time, they just don’t know what
a delay is, and intuitive people
can’t afford something, they
can just be late.
If the intuitive guy
answers that come to me in
a few minutes, I will call
you, you will come to my
office.
These minutes can be both 55
minutes and 49.
That is, the sensor will tell you clearly,
you come to me in 15 minutes, and it
will be ready to listen.
Intuitive is a little different.
That is, by time, you can determine
approximately, in relation to time,
what type of employees
are his colleagues, his subordinates,
persons working in the company
that communicate with him.
And in ethics and logic we just
go, in the law of large numbers
we start, with the fact that men
are most likely logic, and women,
leaders are most likely ethics.
Only in our country is this difficulty.
If we work with a foreign company,
there will be 95% of the 100%
manager of the decisive type,
sensory and thinking.
Why exactly develop all foreign developed
countries, that they have natural
selection put forward to the leading
positions of such persons, they are
easy to agree with each other.
They spend the least time on them,
because they do business, and whoever
they will be affected is not
their concern.
They need to make money, they are hired
for this, and they are paid for it.
In fact, we are concerned with how we
behave within the walls of our own or
another organization when developing,
promoting and making decisions.
Now there is another
psychological feature – it is when
a person is colloquified by the
“I-states” of Eric Burne.
They claim that there is a “I-
state parent”, “I-state adult”
and “I-state child”, or sometimes
called “child”.
You can talk a lot
with your parents.
He usually evaluates the interlocutor,
evaluates the proposals,
he evaluates everything.
He likes to criticize the past,
to offend this past, as a rule,
the past is oriented.
That is, if a person in a conversation
often uses verbs of past
time, most likely he is in the
state of "I am the parent",
and this state is unproductive.
In this state, he will endlessly
pull the rubber, consider
questions, ask to think there,
he will not make a decision,
most likely.
Of course there are exceptions.
The child’s life is directed to the future.
He is energetic, he loves to play,
joke, smile, mark the future, tell
us how everything will be good
with us, and in his speech he often
uses the verb "in the future
of time".
The child’s condition is also not
productive, and also, as a rule, does
not make decisions.
He can offer various projects,
but with someone else dealing
with them.
Only a person in clear state
works and lives at the moment.
He speaks about the matter, as a rule,
at the present time, and proposes
concrete actions.
Here is our task – this is taught in
special training – in the course of
a conversation to translate the interlocutor
into the “I-state of adult”
and continue further contact
with him in order to make
a decision.
What is good business games, how are
they different from meetings?
At the meeting, a person sits, he listens
to information and evaluates it.
He has a “I-state” – the parent, in principle,
unconstructive for the decision-
making of action.
In the game, a person performs
certain actions.
He is already acting and therefore this
action and generates the decision
needed now and in the future that is,
he is in the clear state of adults
as a rule of the game translates a
person here is what their other plus
let us consider the example
first here purely for training how
to determine and try to go along
the way here is the foresight of
the decision which will take
the interlocutor yes First of all,
I want to note another subtlety.
There are training courses of managerial
empathy, when one person adjusts
to the state of another and tries
to predict what decision his
interlocutor will make.
If we know how to do this and
feel that our interlocutor is
ready to make an unfavorable
decision, we should end the
contact, thank him and ask
to postpone the meeting for
later, or for an additional
meeting, empathy.
Now we’ll look at an example
that lets us track the way
a person can make a decision
and what the outcome will
be, right?
Here is a simple task.
We decide from the position of the
head of a simple department, someone very
responsible department, a small one.
Here is what can be.
The next subordinate approaches
us with a request to
grant a Friday break.
The motivation is very sick grandmother
of his children who are in another
city.
And besides, actually, bringing
grandchildren to her need to be there,
so that they are with her, will
be shaking, delighting her, grandmother
will move, somehow her
mood, well-being.
The children go to the pharmacy and take care of them.
That is, it is necessary.
The employee must go there, take
the children.
We have a weekend, a lot
of work.
And, actually speaking, purely
humanly, as a manager, I was tired
of the endlessly questioning of
employees somewhere.
What is called, this man was in
the divide.
He came to ask, well, we would let
him go in principle, and suddenly,
and something... And here we on Wednesday
have to make a decision – to
let him go or not to let go.
Here, let’s consider two
options that our leader who makes
the decision is a logical
type of person.
willing to refuse.
What will he give
to his subordinate?
I think that will probably
be logical again, right?
He will tell you, and how to plan, and
how to, here is something there
needs to do your job.
You just recently was, yes,
logically, only recently you
were on the go, now you need
to leave, but we need to perform
an urgent task, for which,
in fact, you get a salary.
Or maybe someone else will take them,
the wife will take the children
there, or maybe they are already
grown enough to leave.
“You just put them on the bus, call
their grandmother or someone, let
them meet.”
There are logical reasons to
refuse it.
Now, if we are leaders, type,
ethics, ethics type, let us
also refuse our interlocutor,
our subordinate, but we will
have others then.
What formulas?
And the formulations can be such
that "how, today Wednesday, you put
me literally one day before the
shooting, I don't have time
to pick up someone, you put me in
a new position, I need to ask
someone, to persuade someone
to come from the place to work,
something was taken our order,
time is not much, I am very
difficult, you treat me as you
do not respect me at all,
you would come on Monday,
I had time to persuade someone,
and so I just feel uncomfortable,
I don't know how to
be.
And, guys, you just came from the
outdoors, yes, and now you are
out again.
What will the rest of
our department say?
They will say that you are my favorite,
I let you go endlessly, you have
some favors, and everything works.
We refused him in both cases,
yes, but in one case we relied
on profitability and logic, in
another case on attitudes,
feelings and some ethical
parameters.
We could also give the opportunity
to leave, being logical, or ethical.
That is, we just looked at something
that the same decision can
be made by different people, only
different ways to it come,
approaches to it.
And this once again emphasizes
the need and desire to be able
to do express diagnosis of our interlocutor
in order to get some
results from him.
It is very difficult to test
your children's wife there and
so on, the parents of some other
relatives on these parameters
and calmly with them at least
to talk in their language in their
understandable language or there
is such a situation asks
even the boss of the employee
you why did not yesterday
at 17 a.m. that and that this
employee of the sensory type
yes He says, "Now I am already
overwhelming, I have done
almost everything."
And he is an employee of the intuitive
type, for him now it is this... “I will
bring you now, wait an hour, another, third.”
And he still carries now, because
for him now it is an extensive concept.
He has no one minute, three, an
hour, and so on.
This is necessary to know, respectively,
when taking control and implementing
some decisions, meaning that such
a person cannot keep track
of time, he simply cannot.
And don’t give him control
points related to time.
And you don’t have to expect that once
I told him to bring a finished result
at 17 a.m., some development,
and he will bring them.
No, you have to wait a little or
remind him a few times to this person,
or entrust it to someone else.
Now another point related to the
formation of groups.
As we have said, the optimum
from the point of view of
psychology is a group, when the
bosses have almost seven people.
Why is?
Because the result of the
division is eight people and they
cover the entire range of social
roles of the mini-group.
If we go to a smaller number in the
unit, then one of the guys, from
the members of this group, has
to play two roles, or even three.
And that makes him stressed, of course.
That is, the decision on the formation
of such a division may not be optimal,
but acceptable, normal, but,
nevertheless, it will already be
acceptable in some way.
A larger number, better from the position
that then one or two roles will be played
by different people, that is, some
role will be played by two or three
people, that is, some roles will
be duplicated, it is more reliable.
But we simply overload our
leader, he and the head
of the unit, and he has more
wages, so that he carries
a bigger burden.
Now, colleagues, if we look at the
course of decision making in general,
what have we looked at?
We have determined what is
a management decision time.
That’s the result, some choice of
purpose, right?
This is a process and it is the result
of management work.
Here, let us put another point,
which is very important in the goal setting.
When we choose the goal we need to,
there is such an opinion in the
literature, it is recommended
to put the goal as high as
possible.
They say that the higher the target, the more
it is like a float, the more it has
a lifting force.
It calls another achievement.
But in practice, somewhere
it is recommended to set a goal or goal
for the division of the percentage
by 20 higher than the point that
you really need to.
Then this new goal, which is higher
than the previous one, allows that previous
80 percent goal to be achieved easily
and easily, without stress.
In psychology so is.
This is once.
The second is for the objectives.
Strategic management
has four strategic
alternatives for the organization.
It is a strategy of growth, it is a strategy
of limited growth, it is a strategy of
reduction and it is considered a strategy of combination.
If we look at them from the perspective
of management decisions, what are the differences
between a growth strategy and a limited
growth strategy?
Only in pace.
In fact, it is still a growth
strategy.
And for the organization here you do not
need to choose a strategy for the management
of the company, because the growth rate of
the strategy is tightly tied to the
profile of action, to the profile of the
company, to the profile of the company's activity.
If a company is engaged in high
technology, it is only
recommended to grow.
If it is a resource company, there
is a coal mining company, then
limited growth.
Of course yes?
There is nothing to choose here.
When they say, it is necessary
to decide how to develop the company
further here to choose nothing there
is the company profile there is a growth
rate set if the growth rate is
not observed the competitor is ruined
all now the next strategy of reduction
so it is clear what it leads it
sooner or later in general if
not to make a benchmark on growth
will lead to the liquidation
of the company some combination
it is again of two strategies but
on Growth or Cut and closure, choose
not of anything, that is,
here no decisions should be
made.
Just we, once there is a company, there
is a profile, we have arranged it,
let’s say we have made a career
to the top manager, to the first person,
to the distribution of credits,
the director-president or
chairman of this company, that is,
we know what we should do next
already.
It comes from the profile only.
Next to decision making.
Under this very strategy of
the company development
there is a strictly linked personnel
strategy.
There is no choice here either.
Although many teach, you will have
to choose a personnel strategy, there
are so many.
No, in each development
strategy, there is
only one HR strategy,
one HR strategy.
And, accordingly, under this
personnel strategy, corporate
culture is already built, that is,
also to choose from nothing, talking
about major principled decisions.
And, in fact, if we talk about the
principles of large decisions,
then the solution, that is, the goal
of the company can be only one
- capture the leading positions
in the market.
If the company does not have that goal,
they ask why it came to the market.
Sooner or later, competitors will get rid of it.
So, colleagues, we have considered
in our short course the
concept of management decision,
the decision-maker and that
decisions are right and
wrong, that decisions are
optimal, satisfactory.
We considered the classification of
solutions according to different criteria,
different indicators, considered the way
of making decisions from the stage of
the problem through the limitation
of criteria, through the development
of alternatives, through the choice of
some alternative and the implementation
of this project with feedback.
We then looked at how
decisions are made in different
models, allowing us to choose
the model we like most
in our organization or move
to that organization for our
own career.
We then looked at what is done with
resources, how to use the resources
of the organization, how to make strong
management decisions that either
do not require resources or work
in the absence of resources.
After that, we looked at decision-
making techniques for first-line
managers and mentioned that there
are mathematical decision-
making techniques and an entire
machine that can be used.
And more or less in detail, as far
as possible, considered
euclidean or creative methods
of decision-making as a
tool for the organization’s work.
Furthermore, we looked at how
different types of people behave
when making decisions, decided that
our decisions will now be only
correct and that in order to choose
some option you need to consider
not only instant resource
support but also the consequences
of both close and remote we decided
the main in our course on which
to choose the course of development
of the organization which to
choose the direction of development
of the organization as it is
chosen that is without
the choice how to attach the
personnel strategy to it and,
in fact, the main goal of any
organization is leading position
markets.
Thanks for attention.